# Solid Interoperability Panel
November 24th, 2020

## Present

- Justin B
- Josh C
- ePavlik
- Hannes Ricklefs

## Agenda

- Specification - Status and TBD Items
- Specification - Data Grant Scopes

## Minutes

### Specification - Status and TBD Items

- Justin: Currently we work on [draft PR with refactored data registrations](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/66). Permission Model section needs really detailed explaination of various data scopes. We shoululd identify ACP rules for those permissions.
- ...: Trusted Agents section needs some rework as well. They would have access to manage your registries and grant access.
- Josh: I try to figure out bleed over Trusted Agents and data registries.
- Justin: We should start with simplest terms. Trusted Agent would have full access, it can manage registries, manage access, change access.
- Josh: Granting that level of trust implies trust with managing registries.
- Justin: Instead of giving someone Trusted Agent role, we also need a way to just grant control access just on something like a Project. In that case you still would need to store a grant and send receipt. Currently management of grants assumes having owner or trusted agent access.
- Pavlik: We should make sure we have a single source of truth for access. So if we have ACP and Data Grants, they should not be alternatives sources of truth, which could get out of sync or even contradict one another.
- Justin: With Grants you have a grant associated with one single subject. Looking at it I can see all the access granted for example to Josh. 


### Action Items

- Interop Spec - Document use cases that will / won't be covered in first draft of trusted agents
