# Solid Interoperability Panel
August 11th, 2020

## Present

- Justin B
- Sarven C
- elf Pavlik
- Dmitri Z
- Jackson M

## Agenda

- Ecosystem Proposal
  - Remaining work to be done
  - Document Structure
  - Data Authorization


## Minutes

SC - Can we find another term to refer to ecosystem

JB - I see it as spec for client to client data interop. How different applications can work together in solid over shared data. I agree ecosystem is not perfect term. I would like to split it out into spec and primer. We have a core solid specification, on top of that you can have specs for how clients can work together. There doesn't have to be one of those but this one is intented to be as one of possible ones.

SC - We work in a context of ecosystem. We plan to have multiple specs. I think Data Interoperability would be a great name. 

EP - Not sure if it should be one big spec, vs smaller specs (app registration, data registration). heavy dependencies on shape trees. Propose to focus on Data Interop naming.

JB - I see data interop to narrow, maybe client interop?

SC - I don't like client server that much, I see it more as agents with different capabilities.

JB - Generally all parts are really codependent. Everything heavily depends on shapetrees. We found it hard to do operations while having graph of data and resources which authorization is set on. This proposal adds registries pattern. Currently it includes Data and Application, we consider adding Agent registires as well.

EP - They do seem pretty intertwined. Consider "Application Interoperability"

JB - I'm not sure if it is really accurate. Different actors in this proposal are agents - people, software, devices, ultimately there always will be some application code doing the work.

SC - We talk about applications using the stuff. Are we covering just raw linked data consumption enough as well?

JB - The whole point is that data is the first party which enables different applications to interoperate. All the data is linked data.

JB - We identified gap which needs to be fit, between graphs, resources and shapes. Shapetrees are addressing that. We drafted Problems and Goals for iterop which are referenced on top of the Ecosystem proposal.

EP - Consider proper vocab / definitions for applications vs humans.
