# Solid Interoperability Panel
August 18th, 2020

## Present

- Justin B
- Josh C
- Sarven C
- Dmitri Z
- Mitzi L
- e Pavlik
- Eric P

## Agenda

- Feedback from chat app developers
- Application Interoperability 
    - Discuss approach to authorization

## Minutes


### Feedback from chat app developers

- Mitzi: Tim proposed to use data model of long chat With profile he wanted to expand on vcard.
- Sarven: Solid chats were trying to mimic what gitter can do. I see how it works currently in some ways as a hack. Current apps would need to update once we have spec available. Over the years ActivityStreams and ActivityPub were comming up. In ActivityPub, client would send message to its own server and it will do server-to-server to deliver it.
- Dmitri: +1 to Activity Streams, Good community relations, already a designed data model. There are some DID-based chat projects, and they are activity streams based.

- Pavlik: Have some related requirements in [Peer Relationship Management](https://hackmd.io/Yb8qBdIoQROeF32TCa0zTg?view#Data-requirements)

- Justin: We have this approach of smart clients. I think it would be hard to expect server to handle to many responsibilities. I think as minimum we could specify event based notification system which could handle subscriptions. 

### Discuss approach to authorization

*justinwb walking through latest work on https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/59*

...

Link to these related proposals - point out that we're continuing this work:

Sarven: Scroll to "Resource access": https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/13#issue-483343099 . See also ctrl-f "request" for requesting in general.

https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/13

...

JB - Going to switch the examples away from notes to project management because that allows for better use cases and demonstrating more advanced concepts.
