# April 20th, 2020
## Solid Data Interoperability Panel

## Attendees

- Justin B
- Jackson M
- Josh C
- elf Pavlik
- Eric P

## Agenda

1. Footprint Rename Proposal - Shape Trees
1. Latest update on updates to footprint documentation at https://janeirodigital.github.io/footprints/primer - request for collaboration
1. Request feedback / approval on cleanup and alignment of the panel repo in solid/data-interoperability-panel#40
1. Discuss problems and goals included in repo alignment pull
1. Discuss upcoming material intended to address problems and goals
1. Discuss approach for consolidated use cases and/or requirements across panels

## Minutes

### Footprint Rename
- Jackson: I was thinking about Shape Graphs but maybe in a future we can extend Trees into Graphs
- Elf: I find shape trees fine, it's not that crucial. It's more important to clarify how they should be used.
- Justin: Given we have buy in from the panel, ruben, and tim, let's officially go with shape tress. So, we'll update the documentation.

PROPOSED: rename footprints to Shape Trees  
[offline support from TimBL, Ruben, Dimitri, Pat]  
ericP: +1  
justin: +1  
elf: +1  
jackson: +1  
josh: +1  
RESOLVED  

### [Latest Update on Documentation](https://janeirodigital.github.io/footprints/primer)

- Justin: We had session with Tim last Friday. Tim and Ruben came up with something called Footprints, aimed to solve similar but narrower problem. We started from their idea but later diverged from it.
- ...: Shapes allow to put constraints on single resource, applications usually operate on multiple resources. Shape Trees give us needed data boundries.

### Discuss approach for consolidated use cases and/or requirements across panels

PROPOSED: funnel use cases into the interop repo to finally merge into a CG note related to solid specifications  
ericP: +1  
elf: +1  
justinwb: +1  
josh: +1  
RESOLVED  

### Elf Pavlik introduces CRM use case

write-up: http://conversationsforaction.com/cfa-playground

elf: encourages customers rather than vendors to maintain contacts.
... when parties are both customers and vendors, you arrive at a peer relationship.
... orders, re-negotiations, etc. reveals a supply-chain pod with peer relationships.
... will produce a few actors with around customer and vendor relationships to see data flow.
... after a negotiation, both actors will want a copy of a contract, with update subscription.
justin: when you have two sides two a stateful conversation demands event-based notifications.
