# 2021-05-25 Solid Interoperability

https://meet.jit.si/solid-data-interoperability

## Agenda

* Scopes used by Data Grants (incl. Referenced and Remote)
* TS implementation [repo](https://github.com/janeirodigital/sai-js)

## Present

* Hannes
* Pavlik
* Justin
* Eric

## Minutes

### TS implementation

Discussing BBC use case...


### Scopes used by Data Grants (incl. Referenced and Remote)

Pavlik: Let's try to stick with Projects and Tasks use cases

Justin: First case 'all projects and all tasks (owned by user)', it means all existing right now and all that will exist in the future. It is important to distinguish from 'all existing right now'. With former as soon as new project it created it would not be under that data grant.
...: In that case you don't need inheritance (referenced) grants. 
Pavlik: references issue https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/113
Justin: correct currently if you add new storage and new registry current approach would not cover the new registry
Hannes: I think granting access to all tasks seems outside of the scope of projects presented on consent screen
Justin: We should be able to adjust it
Hannes: Our news website is curated list of articles, some articles never make it to curated list. Access to all curations shouldn't give access to articles which didn't make it to any of curations.
Justin: Even tasks could be associated with something but it might not always be a project.
...: In this consent screen view we present Projects as a 'root', it does seem incorrect to give access to tasks which are not related to projects.
Eric: one can delete project which has associated tasks
Justin: I think we don't cover enough for delete use cases with regards to expectations. We may want to discuss some 'cleanup' operations.

See: https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/118


Justin: Now let's take a look at *Specific Projects* (owned by user)
...: We start with root needs and cascade down. You can get some broken links if you start selecting specific tasks if you don't filter down from that root one.
...: We don't have any enforcement to pick tasks which are not from projects one selected.
Pavlik: I think one could use selected on tasks from filtered list of task. As long as tasks don't get moved between projects.
Justin: We man need additional criteria on selection. 


## Actions

* Justin: Create issue for n-depth relations
