# Solid Interoperability Panel
February 2nd, 2021

## Present

- Justin B
- Benoit A
- Matthieu F
- [Henry Story](https://co-operating.systems/)
- Hannes
- Davi
- ericP
- Josh C

## Agenda

- Announcements
    - Review prior minutes - See [prior minutes](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/79)
- Pull requests
    - [Public discovery use case](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/81)
- Issues
    - [Agree on terminology to distinguish software agent from social agent](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/80)
- Topic Items
    - Considerations for data discovery - Justin B

## Minutes

Justin: leaving distinguishing software and user agents for next week when Pavlik joins
... issue also gets into identity for organizations.
... main topic: Discovery
... Pavlik submitted a public discovery use cases and I \[justin] added some use cases
... fed Matthiew's questions back into docs
... TimBL asked why we've not talked about TypeIndexes yet
... over the last few years, Solid docs talk about public and private TypeIndexes.
... the ecosystem allows you to following your nose but doesn't mean there isn't a reason to have separate indexes.
... if you follow your nose to the data in a registry, your complete but you're doing a table scan.
... will lead to performance issues
... the ecosystem is meant to coexist with indexes but able to work without.
... data (location) remains stable while query mechanisms evolve
... TypeIndexes point to public and private data.
Benoit: what's the existing spec for TypeIndexes?
Justin: never made it out of the proposals phase
... You'll see them in NodeSolidServer

Henry Story: 

   Responding to the privacy problem when Apps can discover and share information about which applications someone is using by consulting the TypeIndexes. 

   ...It may help to start with the ideal. This ideal may not be implementable now, but it could guide or work, by helping us locate what features we should help push for in Browsers to help us get there, allowing us to make alliances with others that need those features too. Of course we have to implement with what we have now. The idea can help clarify what we really need.

   ...Here is a proposed ideal which I think would cover all these security aspects, and that was being worked on as [COWL: A Confinement System for the Web](http://cowl.ws) following research published in 2014 by University College London and a number of Browser Vendors. Some of these ideas were incorporated into standards. Others  led to a [spec draft on Confinement](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-cowl/) -- though it has not been worked on since end of 2017. 

   ... A Confinement System would allow one JS to run another JS library and completely restrict what that JS lib can do. It could restrict access to network connections, allowing the remote JS to only receive data through what I called an [LauncherApp](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/master/proposals/LauncherApp.md). (note: that use case does not assume a confinement system, even if arguably it would work better with it). Such confined Apps could display data but not be able to fetch any data without going through a Guard that was part of the Launcher App, an App completely trusted by the user. From there we could work backwards to what is doable and then point out what tech is missing to get to the ideal. With this in place it is clear that the privacy problem discussed above would dissapear. The LauncherApp would be the only App to have an overview of what Apps the user has access to (the TypeIndexes) and would be able to set restrcitions on Apps of various sorts. It could restrict a Calculator App to never make any network connections. Or it could restrict a Photo Editing App to only edit photos. Or it could restict a banking App to only work on Registered Bank Web sites.... It could do that because the Launcher App would control the connections.  

Would that solve the privacy problems? I think that is worth asking. Perhaps other problems would remain.  Given that, we can compare where we are now to that situation, and understand which decisions we make are necessary workarounds for missing features.

