# Solid Data Interoperability Panel
January 5th, 2021

## Present

- Justin B
- Benoit A
- Josh C
- Matthieu F
- Matthieu B
- Hannes
- Ãngel A
- e Pavlik
- Ruben D
- Dmitri Z
- Eric P

## Agenda

- Panel Goals for 2021
- Shape Trees Update
- Interop Specification Update
- Open for discussion (Please add adjust as you like)
- [Angel] Discuss meta-resource sharing (registries & registry sets)
- [Benoit] Could [our sequence diagrams](https://git.startinblox.com/documentation/specifications/issues/4#note_43356) be added to the proposal and where ?
    
## Minutes

### 2021 Goals

Shape trees:
- Shape tree specification - 1.0
- Shape tree primer - 1.0
- Shape tree implementations - Java, Typescript
- Shape tree validation on server - Spec document, CSS integration

App Interop:
- Use github issues for design issues / changes (and link to use case document)
- Application interop specification - 1.0
- Application interop primer - 1.0
- Application use cases - 1.0
    - Action Item - split out use case document into its own branch
- Client library implementations - typescript
- Application service implementations - typescript

Additional Goals:
- EP: Figure out what other communities could be interested in it, and how it might be used in other specs. Would be interesting to find other use cases (e.g. for shape trees).
- DZ: Are there corollaries in DIF? Shape tree spec might be too complicated for those use cases. Confidential storage group would be able to satisfy that use case with child resources and inherited permissions.
- JB: Do a better job highlighting the work being done in the panel to those outside of it

### Shape Trees Update

- Justin: We want to have 1.0 draft of the spec and corresponding primer. Current primer is fairly out of date.
- ...: We want client libraries in two languages: Typescript and Java. We are advancing on Java version but it would be good to get collaboration on Typescript version. We hope to demostrate server side implementation with Typescript version on community server.

- Josh: https://github.com/shapetrees/specification/pull/30 - Removes all references to ecosystem operations
- Josh: https://github.com/shapetrees/specification/pull/31 - Remove any URI matching and rely solely on shape tree hints
- Also will be removing shape tree decorator versioning since it was deemed a bit over overengineering: See https://github.com/shapetrees/specification/issues/27

### Interop Update

- Trusted Agents / Trusted Needs - Will be pushing a local branch that satisfies this
- Access Grants - Huge refactoring of access needs through access grants
	- Simplifying access needs - removing compiled access
	- Access Needs -> Access Grants
	- One level of depth to align with one level of conditional relationship
	- Granting access to remote data registry
	- Grant examples - https://hackmd.io/cqvolbxhQbyOxYhz7KaSwQ
- Remote Data Registration - Refactored to tie in with access grant refactoring, and now supporting access grants on remote data registry
- Next after this branch is submitted in PR: Application Services
    - Balessan and team at Startin' Blox have put together some diagrams and research towards this that should be reviewed / incorporated / collaborated with
