# Solid Interoperability Panel
March 2nd, 2021

## Meeting
 * Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-data-interoperability

## Present

- Justin B
- Josh C
- Benoit A
- Matthieu F
- Matthieu B
- Henry S
- Eric P
- Max L
- Ángel A
- Ruben D
- Hannes
- e Pavlik

## Agenda

- Announcements
    - Review prior minutes - See [prior minutes](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/85)
- Issues
    - [Community Server - Shape Tree Support](https://github.com/solid/community-server/issues/639)
- Pull requests
- Topic Items
    - BBC Use Case
    - Startin'Blox use case (cont'd)
    - Mellon use case
    - Pavlik may receive small grant to work on primer and some TypeScript modules (what to prioritize?)

## Minutes

### BBC Use Case

Hannes: Really big question in the public broadcast space about what does public service mean in the 21st century? Have been having interesting conversations with NY Public Library who is asking the same kind of questions.

- What is the BBC in a world within this new emerging data economy?
- What is the BBC's role within this ?
- Should the BBC be hosting a pod for it's members, or purely be part of an application services ecosystem?
- Working with a research agency to talk to the underserved audience asking questions about personal data - what it means to them, etc. What does the audience think about this, and what should the BBC be doing based on that.
- What are the technical implications?
- Looked at different areas like mental health / well-being, finance and money, etc - provide a public service based on data to help with your daily life
- Tried to create user facing services before but they're hard to make
- Start simple / tell the story in a well that people understand
- Do a media recommender
    - Take in media activity
    - Recommend things you might like based on that
    - Connect your spotify account
    - Connect to your BBC account
    - Connect your prime video
    - Connect your netflix
    - Pull listing data down to the pod
    - Give people a chance to manipulate some of the raw data (e.g. top artists, top tv shows)
    - Present recommendation options (artists, podcasts, archives)
    - Can start to bring in data from third party service providers
        - Band that you liked / listened to is doing a comeback tour
    - Made a cornmarket data exchange - lets apps and services making use of personal data to read and write the data effectively.
- Consent
    - Broken down into three broad areas
    - Is this long-term access
    - Scope of access
    - What time window of access

JB: Is the consent currently hard-coded
ML: Yes at the moment

JB: Would it be worth collaborating on the next phase of dynamic authz/consent to apply interoperability spec patterns - ML: Yes 

BA: What kind of performance issues
ML: Ran into some issues with (rdf.js?) with slow performance over collections of resources. Should be an improvement coming in an inrupt client side library.

BA: Is this code currently open-source 
ML: Not at the moment, possibly in the future

Henry: speaking of efficiency, I have been looking at HTTP/3 (Quic) [I did some research notes on this](https://github.com/akka/akka-http/issues/3692) (not related to Solid yet, but just to work out what libs are available, what the advantages are, the extent of deployment, etc...)
