# Meeting #6 - 2019-10-21
## Solid Data Interoperability Panel

## Connection Info
__Connect with your computer, tablet, or smartphone:__  
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/620786365

__Dial in:__   
United States (Toll Free): 1 866 899 4679  
Belgium (Toll Free): 0 800 78881  
Costa Rica (Toll Free): 0800 542 5404  
Denmark (Toll Free): 8025 3112  
France (Toll Free): 0 805 541 052  
Germany (Toll Free): 0 800 723 5274  
Ireland (Toll Free): 1 800 818 263  
Netherlands (Toll Free): 0 800 023 1954  
New Zealand (Toll Free): 0 800 47 0051  
Norway (Toll Free): 800 33 083  
United Kingdom (Toll Free): 0 800 031 4727  

__Access Code:__ 620-786-365

## Agenda
1. Presentation on BFO / CCO - Mark Jensen, Jacob McConomy, Jim Schoening

## Minutes

User Profile Use Case and CCO

Jim: CCO passed as an international standard
Mark: CCO is part of some ongoing work.
- we have use cases included in this batch of work.
- [listed the avatar team]
- Jason has been active in data interoperability.
- Use Case: address data interop by leveraging a standard set of upper and mid-level contologies and extensions
- Jason posted the use case in issue 24. PR 14 has the same content, plus commentary.
- in our experience, a common ontology is more effective than shapes alone.
- if you have disconnected ontologies (T-box + A-box), you need pair-wise mappings.
- in the ideal case, an upper-ontology leaves you needing n mappings (as opposed to order n^2)
- Premise: multiple extensions to user-profile ontology
- Use Case includes profile data for Jane Doe
- profile is around 50 terms; extensionns around 150 terms
- CCO under development for 10 years
- RO did not go through ISO with BFO; BFO has just a couple bfo: relations.
- CCO has a CC3 BY license
- OBO is starting work on an OBO-Core ontology

Jacob McConomy: working with Jason and Dylan
- created basic user profile app
- comment at https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/24
- building mappings from vCard and FOAF
 - ericP: might want to add schema.org
 - Justin: the fundamental Q you’ll get a lot is “what makes it better and where are you running into gaps?”
 - if folks embrace BFO and where will they run into gaps?
- ericP: what was the learning curve on BFO?
 - Jacob: about a month working with part-time interns. for me, it was much easier once i had examples. People may be able to make apps extending the user profile. [without learning BFO]
 - Mark: agree. possible that people working as developers won’t have to think too hard about using BFO. if you seriously learn how to think about the world through BFO, there are lots of tutorials out there.
- Jim: if you’re just re-using terms that exist; an app-developer should be able to find them with tools. if they find more than one; they can try them to see what fits best. I imagine a commodity market as this grows
- ericP: did unit analysis pay off?
 - Jim: it’s been useful to run reasoners to double check other people’s work. when we do a formal release, we do testing. i run some validation queries and DL queries
 - ericP: DL-Query?
 - Jim: could do unit tests, but currently use SPARQL to make sure that metadata appears where it should.
- Justin: pointed TimBL at this. will try to get his feedback before the next meeting.
- Jim: CCO is pretty big (~1500 terms). we don’t want to enforce a thick ontology, more a methodology
 - doesn’t require using all of CCO
 - a minimally-structured view can be unpacked into a more complete representation
- ericP: using strongly-connected components to pack up the ontology?
 - Jim: yes, would like to geek about this
 - ericP: a lot of OBO ontologies retro-fitted BFO
 - Jim: yeah, OBO is struggling under the weight of that.
- Justin: looking forward to more examples. will try to feed TimBL’s feedback through issues.
